[RUMBLING]
[GAIA THEME MUSIC]
[THEME MUSIC]
>> Hi.
I'm Dr. Theresa Bullard,
host of "Mystery Teachings".
Now, today, I'm
going to lead you
through a meditation on the
archetypes of The Hierophant
and The Lovers.
Now, together they help
us sharpen our intuition
and our discernment.
The Hierophant helps us to learn
and grow from our life lessons,
as well as how to
walk a mystical path
with practical feet,
while The Lovers help
us to learn the
Dance of Polarity
within our relationships
and our choices in life.
Well, let's explore now some
practical and experiential
things that we can do to work
with both these archetypes,
The Hierophant and The Lovers.
Here's a formula that you can
follow for invoking these two
archetypes into your life.
First, we'll work with
one card at a time,
beginning with The Hierophant.
Once you're ready, find The
Hierophant card in your deck
and take it out.
Place this card in front
of you at eye level.
So if you have a meditation
stool or a cushion,
you can sit on that
in front of a table,
and then place the card
upright on the table.
Get yourself into a relaxed
position and a light meditative
state.
Take several deep breaths, relax
your body, and empty your mind.
Make sure that you're
bringing yourself
into a positive, or at least
a neutral state of being,
so that nothing's disturbing you
either mentally or emotionally.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
Once you've accessed this
light meditative state,
look at the image of The
Hierophant card for a while.
Keeping your eyes
open, study the card
for about 5 to 10 minutes.
Really take in all the details,
the imagery, the symbolism.
Study all of its aspects.
Memorize it.
And begin to let that really
impress itself upon your mind.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
We'll remain silent now
for the next five minutes
as we now meditate on the
symbolism of the card.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
Next, we want to take it inside
and work with it in our mind.
We're going to close
our eyes, bring
the image of The
Hierophant inside,
and work with it for
another 10 minutes,
building up all the
aspects of this image,
remembering all the
details, all the symbols.
See the colors.
See the characters in the card.
Imagine that it's a doorway,
there's a door frame,
and through that door frame you
see the imagery of the card.
And once this image is firmly
established in your mind,
let it come to life.
Walk through that
doorway into the scenery,
and let it take on like a
virtual reality experience.
The characters come to life.
Observe them for a while.
Notice what they do, how
they behave, how they move,
any messages that they
might say, and especially
feel the energy
of The Hierophant.
Notice the kind of
energy that he emanates.
And after observing for a while
and connecting to this energy
and feeling it, then you want
to merge with The Hierophant.
Become The Hierophant.
See yourself as The
Hierophant taking his position
upon the throne sitting between
those two pillars, students
before you ready to
receive teachings.
You are The Hierophant.
Now, really allow this
sense, this feeling
of being The Hierophant to
fully integrate and take
root within you.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
When you feel integrated
with this energy,
you're then going to sit
up straight within a chair
and actually take on the
posture of The Hierophant.
Assume his archetypal
form and body position
with your right hand
up giving that sign
of esoteric benediction, with
your pointer and middle fingers
up while the rest
are just folded.
And then, imagine your
left hand holding a scepter
with three cross
bars at the top.
And holding this
position, you're
going to say the
affirmation, I am
the Magus of the Eternal Gods.
I am the Initiator
and the Inner Teacher.
And once you feel
strong in this position
as the archetypal form, you're
going to say this affirmation,
I am the Magus of
the Eternal Gods.
I am the Initiator
and the Inner Teacher.
Allow that to
resonate within you,
to reverberate
throughout your being,
to anchor its vibration
deep within yourselves.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
And when you're
ready, we're now going
to move to The Lovers
card, and we're
going to do the same process.
So take out your
Lovers card, put it up,
meditate in front
of it, and begin
with studying it and meditating
upon it with your eyes
open for 5 to 10 minutes,
taking in all the details,
studying all the imagery,
memorizing it, engraving it
upon your consciousness.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
After those first
5 to 10 minutes
of studying The Lovers with your
eyes open, now take it inside.
Close your eyes and work with
it inside in your inner mind
for 10 minutes.
Recreate the imagery.
Bring in all the details,
the colors, the characters.
Imagine that the frame of
a card is like a doorway,
and you see the scenery on
the other side of that door.
Bring it into full
detail, and work
with it for those 10 minutes
building it up in your mind.
And then, once you've gotten
through those 10 minutes,
let the figures come to life.
Move through the doorway.
Walk into the scenery
and let it take
on a three dimensional virtual
reality type of experience.
Observe all the characters.
Notice what they
do, how they behave,
any messages that they
have, and especially feel
the energy and
their ways of being.
Focus on each one of The Lovers,
the male, the female, angel,
and even the serpent.
And then, pay attention to the
relationship and their dynamics
with each other.
And then, finally, you're
going to merge with The Lovers.
Become them.
See yourself as each
one of these characters.
And then, see yourself
as the whole dynamic.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
And when you feel integrated
with this energy, stand up,
and you're going
to actively take
on the postures of The Lovers.
Start as the man looking
towards the woman.
Then, take on the posture
of the woman looking
towards the angel.
And finally, spread
your arms out wide
and assume the archetypal
form of the angel.
And from that position,
state this affirmation,
we are the Children
of the Voice Divine
and the Oracles of
the Mighty Gods.
We are the essence of love.
All opposites are
reconciled through us.
Allow that affirmation
in that energy
to reverberate
through your being.
Let it resonate.
Let it awaken its energies
and vibration in yourselves.
Anchor it deeply within you.
When you're ready,
we're next going
to place both The Hierophant
and The Lovers cards next
to each other and meditate
upon them together.
Put The Hierophant
on the left side
and The Lovers on
the right side.
See how they
contrast each other.
complement each other.
The Hierophant stimulates your
intuition and inner voice,
and also is the education
of The Lovers, where
The Lovers stimulate your
discernment and relationship
abilities and making choices.
Finally, we want to
take these energies
and express them
into our outer life.
Examples of how to
do that could be
to bring the primary colors,
such as red and orange,
into our environment or
the colors of our clothing.
Continue meditating on these
symbols and images daily
for the next week, and
work with the affirmations
that we just used.
Contemplate the
meaning of each card
and how it applies to your life.
And watch for these archetypes
to appear in your dreams.
And then, analyze whatever
messages they might give you.
And pay attention also
to how you personally
embody the strengths and
weaknesses of each one.
And then, consciously
work to make improvements
in these areas.
And, again, realize that
when we work with archetypes,
they will set forces
in motion in our life.
So if you want to really
engage with this experience,
then commit to seeing it all the
way through to the end working
with each key in the order given
as we go through the series,
don't skip steps, and really
just give it your attention.
Join me again, as
we explore further
into the 22 archetypes
of Tarot, and how
they can help us to make our
big shift in consciousness.
[THEME MUSIC]